This is Senator Estes' key fall for Tennessee speaking.
I am delighted to be invited to take part in honoring station WICU on the occasion of
its 10th anniversary.
I have known Ted Lam for many, many years, and I know the outstanding work he and the
staff of WICU have done in bringing the best of news, entertainment and public service
programs to the viewers and listeners of the area and the surrounding area.
I know that not only from reputation, but I have had the opportunity of visiting station
WICU on two occasions in the past few years.
I wish very much I could be with you personally on this occasion.
I extend to Ted Lam and to the staff and to the people of WICU and to the audience of
this film, my warmest greetings and congratulations.
I wish all of you continuing success and your undertakings and many more good years to come.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, my friends are Tennessee.
Today we are very honored in having a distinguished member of the United States Senate with us,
who is one of my very best friends.
We came here at the same time back in the first part of 1949.
I'm sure that all of you know our distinguished guests, but in case you do not recognize him,
he has sent a Russell Long of Louisiana.
Russell before you're saying anything, I want to say that I think Senator Long is one
of our ablest, finest, most progressive members of the United States Senate.
He had the distinction when he came here first of being about the third youngest senator
to ever come to Washington.
Of course, he's older than that now.
And also the only member of the Senate who's father and mother were also members of the
United States Senate.
He's doing a great work here and we in Tennessee certainly appreciate your cooperation with
many things that we are interested in Russell.
Well, that's, if that needs to be, I don't agree with everything you said, but I appreciate
you saying it just the same.
I'd be glad if you hadn't.
I told the truth Russell.
Senator Long today has introduced a bill of which I have the pleasure of being a co-sponsor
called the Veterans Reinsurance Bill.
It's of importance to servicemen of all wars.
I know you'll hear a great deal about it.
And Senator Long, will you tell us about the bill and what it provides?
Is this particular bill that I've introduced and Senator Keith Bolvers joined in the years
of sponsor on this bill?
Just to give veterans of World War II and the Korean War and any other veteran who was
ever eligible to take out his national service life insurance, a second chance to take
it out.
And that would include those veterans who once had an additional service life insurance
and they'd expire.
Now, of course, the big reason we want to do that is because this veteran's insurance is
much cheaper than it is to take it out with a private company.
For example, for term insurance, I noticed it would cost less than one third as much
to have this insurance with the government under your national service life insurance.
Then it would have it with a private company.
This can be done in such a way that the new policies will carry the cost of administration
and the cost of taking them out.
And even then, it will be a tremendous savings to the veteran and at no cost, whatever,
to the federal government.
Now, we feel that this is needed, that there are about 14 million veterans and their families
who are interested in this measure.
This past has said on two other occasions when we offered it, it has failed in the house
of representative, but one of these days we're going to succeed in getting it through
bull houd as in making it law.
I've seen it long.
As I understand, veterans who have let their insurance, their national life insurance,
lapse or who just never took it out, this would give them one year in which they could
get into the program too.
And they should have that.
Same opportunity was given veterans of World War I.
For many, many years, I believe even up to this day, they had that opportunity.
That's right.
To take out their national service life insurance at their tamed age.
And actually, if you took it out when you were younger, you would get a cheaper rate.
But even so, it's a substantial savings in veterans of World War II and the Korean War.
It should have that opportunity.
As a matter of fact, most of them, when they were discharged, were not married men.
They didn't have family responsibilities.
And if they took out insurance policy, it was just, they were the matter of ensuring
that mother or their father.
But now that they have wives and children and very heavy and substantial family responsibilities,
they want this protection, this coverage.
I believe we'll get from one of these days after.
I think we will do Russell now.
How much will this cost the government?
Not of it.
Not one red copper cent.
The way we drew it up, it wouldn't be quite as favorable as if they had taken the policy
out in the first place because every service the government furnished will be covered in
the cost of the policy.
But even then, as I say, we figure, let's say a man thirty-five with a term insurance
policy of ten thousand dollars could get that for about eighteen dollars a year.
And it would cost about sixty-six only average with the private company.
Now how about the American Legion and the VFW and the VFW?
Every single one of them would borrow it.
I don't know of any nature of veterans organization against it.
As a matter of fact, some of the nature of veterans organizations like American Legion
have promised me that they're going to fight actively for that bill during this Congress.
Well I think this is the most important bill.
I know where all of us members of the Senate received letters from servicemen who want
to sit in on the program and say that they let it lapse and this will give them an opportunity
of getting in.
I congratulate your Senator Long upon filing this bill and thank you very much for your
bill.
Thank you for your help, FF.
Just will need you up to get it through.
That's all until next week at this time.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I wish to first report to you that my
knee is feeling a great deal better now than it was this time when I talked to you last
week.
But even though I have had considerable improvement, nobody has persuaded me yet to again try to
ride in one of these soup box Derby automobile racers.
For the time being, I'm just antique automobile will continue to be my hobby.
I went out to see this little racer a few days ago and I marveled high ever was able
to get in it.
But ladies and gentlemen, today I have with me two very handsome men as you will see
in just a few minutes that I want to introduce to you.
First on my left is Richard Wallace and I thank you for seeing him on this program.
Many of you know him.
He has been my very able conscientious loyal, hardworking administrative assistant for almost
eight years here in Congress.
I hate very much to leave Mr. Wallace, but he's leaving us in a few days to perform a
very important work in which I'm interested too.
Dick, I know you want to tell us something about what you're going to do.
Oh yes, I'm sure.
But first let me say that it's been a real pleasure working with you during these past
years.
I never know anyone that I admired more and you certainly performed it.
Well, you're a nice say.
So we've had a lot of hard decisions and a lot of difficulties, but we've made them
right or wrong.
But he didn't made it right.
I admit a lot of them wrong too.
Well, Senator, the Atlantic Congress is really something that you started in 1957.
You appointed the delegate to the NATO Parliamentarians' conference and while there you
proposed a resolution that was unanimously adopted by delegates from all the NATO nations
calling for a Congress of citizens, modeled after the Hague Congress that was held in
Europe in 1948, to meet in June of next year, now all the NATO...
You mean in Indonesia, right?
In the year 1959.
Now all the nations are in the process of organizing and arranging for their participation in
the Congress.
My part will be working with the United States Committee to do this.
We hope that a lot will be produced in this year, which is the anniversary of NATO, not
just be a time of looking back with what will be a time to look forward to what NATO ought
to be in the future.
Well, that's right.
Well, I certainly agree that this is going to be one of the most important meetings in
the century.
As a matter of fact, the security and freedom and the peace of the world and the security
of the United States, I think, depends upon us working with our allies of the North Atlantic
community better with greater unity, and that's the purpose that we're of this meeting.
So you're going to be performing a most outstanding service with which you're very well qualified.
We want you to come back and be with us on this program as a guest from time.
Thank you, Senator.
I'll be over here begging for the privilege.
Now on my right here is Charlie Colwell, who was assistant city editor of the Memphis
Presbyter.
I know that many of you have known Charlie Colwell.
He and Dick have been friends and Charlie and I have been friends for many, many years.
I don't know if anyone can fill Dick Wallace's shoes, but Charlie, you look big enough for
a lot of us, anybody's shoes.
And we certainly are glad to have you as our new administrative assistant.
Thank you, Senator.
It's not very often that a man gets an opportunity to work as an administrative assistant for
a senator, and it's really rare that he gets a chance to work as one for a senator and
a station.
And I'll try to be the John Dick, that Charlie or you sure are starting off well.
Well, every since we first met in the campaign in 48 and 10 a.m. at which time we traveled
together, I've followed your career with great interest and I do want you to know that
I consider quite an honor to work for you.
Well, thank you, Charlie.
And I know you're going to do a great job and we're going to be down to the governor's inauguration
on Monday the 19th and together and you'll have a chance of seeing a whole lot of people
then.
Well, I wish we could talk about a lot of other things, but our time is up and so long
until next week at this time.
This week from the nation's capitals, Senator Estes Keek-Fover presents a very distinguished
guest and a very interesting subject, submarines and the Polaris.
Now here is Senator Keek-Fover.
Ladies and gentlemen, this week we have on our program, we're Admiral John T. Hayward,
who is the chief of naval operations for research and development.
We'd like to have you, Admiral Hayward, and welcome to our program.
Admiral Hayward, the defense department has placed a great deal of dependence upon the Polaris
missile.
What is it and how does it work and will you tell us something about it?
This is in your jurisdiction, of course.
Yes, that's a badly-centered.
The Polaris missile is a solid propellant ballistic missile launched from the nucleus submarine
and it is one of the best weapon systems we have.
It permits us to use the submarine's advantages of security and invulnerability because of
its mobility to the best effect.
And it is one of our best deterrent forces.
It has advantages, of course, over fixed bases and it is part of the approach to the
deterrent problem by putting flexibility into it.
Well, we're very proud of the great progress you and the Navy have made in this field.
Admiral Hayward, is it just this mean that battleships and cruisers and destroyers and
surface ships are not no longer going to be important in the Navy?
No, Senator, because this is just one part of the challenge that faces the United States.
This is in what we call the all-out of the mega-war part of the spectrum of war.
Whereas when you have situations such as existed in Lebanon or Indonesia or Korea, you will
have to use the other part of your conventional systems to fight and ease their countries.
Well, Admiral Hayward, I understand that you are receiving some very valuable weather
information from the latest Vanguard shot, which we are all proud of as a scientific
advancement by our researchers.
What is the Navy's Vanguard rocket like and how does the orbiting process work other
than?
It's a 20-inch sphere that we have.
It's a three-stage rocket.
This is the fourth stage I'm holding, and the sphere is separated from the fourth
stage because you want to get accurate scientific information.
The Vanguard is now in the hands of the National Aeronautics and Space Agency.
Of course, we in the Navy feel like it's our project and we're very happy to be getting
this weather information.
It is an excellent scientific accomplishment and the American should be proud of it.
Well, we certainly are and we're proud of the Navy.
I'm trying to see if somewhat of a naval state, although we don't bother on any ocean.
We have rivers and lakes.
Well, Admiral Hayward, what is the Navy's future role in the missile field?
Are we going ahead with satellites as a military weapon or are you confining yourself, yourselves,
to tactical missiles?
Well, our philosophy is to use space to accomplish our objectives where we can accomplish it
better in space than we can on the ground.
We are certainly going to investigate a new space to the best of our ability to do the
naval job.
Well, Admiral, as you know, all of us in the Senate get a lot of letters about the budget
and the defense department is spending $45 billion.
Well, these weapons are going to get more and more costly and we'll have to spend more
of what do you think about that situation.
Well, they're going to be more complex and they probably will cost more and actual dollars.
However, I feel that if we, by the means of research and development, we can do the
job more efficiently with fewer people that the costs should relatively run about the
same percentage of the budget as it runs today.
Well, Admiral, we hear a whole lot about the Russians' huge submarine fleet and can you tell
us where we stand in this course that we're engaged in?
As the Polaris succeeds on our side, we're worried about the Russian submarine.
We certainly don't have all the answers and I'm sorry I can't say that we do.
Well, I'm certainly I'm grateful to you for coming and I know that the viewers of this
program appreciate your appearance very, very much.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
That's all until next week at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, as you may have read in the newspapers recently,
there seems to be a lot of conversation going on about another increase in the steel industry.
Another time steel prices jump, your pocketbook jumps with pain.
The prices of your automobile, your washing machine, your refrigerator, your iron, tin cans,
hair pins and all of your appliances and hundreds of others, all the things that you must buy
to pursue your life and business, respond directly and acutely and immediately to any change
in the price of steel.
As a matter of fact, it's steel that is the bellweather of our economy.
For some months now, there has been talk of a strike in the steel industry.
Manufacturers hedge by building up inventory.
The steel industry hedges by stepping up production and stockpiling.
The industry points to labor cost and says it must raise the price of steel.
Labor points to the high cost of manufactured goods and profits the steel industry makes
and says it must have more money to make things come out even and the consumer just winces.
The real question is, which comes first?
The chicken or the egg?
Why is it that we can't stop this nut-so-mer-y, merry-go-round of wages and prices, which spins
us further and further into the high altitudes of inflation?
Which really does come first?
The chicken or the egg?
A few days ago, I outlined a new proposal in an effort to prevent a further price increase
in the steel industry.
I urge that Roger Blau, the board chairman of the United States Steel and David McDonald,
the president of the United Steel Workers, consider this proposal in the seriousness with
which I propose it.
I propose that the union offer to limit its wage-increased demand to an amount equal to
the increase in the productivity in the steel industry.
An impartial board could determine the rate of productivity increase.
I pointed out that if the union were to so restrict its demands, and there would be no
necessity for an increase in the cost of steel per tonne, and thus no justification for
a price increase.
But if management, despite this limited demand by the union, raised prices, the union would
be free to seek its proportionate share of the price increase.
Well, Mr. McDonald, when he was asked by reporters for his reaction to this proposal, was quoted
as stating he wished I would keep my nose out of his business.
This position doesn't seem very indicative of a willingness to solve the problem, and
it dramatizes my position exactly, and I understand Mr. Blau may not be very happy with the proposal
either.
The price of steel is not just Mr. McDonald's business.
It's not just the business of Mr. Roger Blau of the United States Steel Company.
It's the business of the people.
The price increase in steel will start the inflation, merry go around spinning, and
who among us can afford that.
I hope Mr. McDonald, for whom I have the highest admiration, will give my proposal more
serious consideration, as he must realize, and the equation is just as hard on the members
of his union, as it is on the people everywhere.
I believe that some serious talk and action along the lines I propose, but sound a lot better
to the consumers' ear, and to talk about the inevitable ability of a price wage boost
that seems to drown out all else.
I would suggest that if you concur with me, that you like Mr. McDonald, and that you write
Mr. Roger Blau at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and urge them to make a serious effort to head
off another plan in the cost of living stratosphere.
Perhaps if enough consumers write enough letters, we can plan the answer to the chicken and
egg question, and slow down the merry go round enough to step off and find out what solid
ground feels under our cost of living.
My earnest effort to find a solution to the inflationary spiral still stands, and I stand
behind it.
We have been trying to do that this for a number of years, but it seems like every July the
price of steel goes up, and then we have an increase demand for higher wages, and so it goes
on and on.
It's got to stop somewhere.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, it has been a very busy week in Congress,
and here are some of the things which we have accomplished in the Senate.
The situation in Berlin, brought it by Mr. Kruchef into a state of real danger, called
for a firm show of strength on the part of the United States.
I'm glad to be able to report that the Senate acted in at least two ways to give Mr. Kruchef
something to chew on.
With only one dissenting vote, we approved by 90-1 vote a four-year term, four-year extension
of the draft act.
This was urgently requested by President Eisenhower, and I think that it was proper that
the act be extended, and I voted for the extension.
Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, called on
the Senate before the vote on this bill was taken to show that the United States, quote,
means what it says when it says we must maintain the military strength of the United States,
unquote.
In addition to continuing the present machinery for drafting young men aged 18 through 26,
the Senate bill also provides among other things authority for continuation of extra pay
at the rate of $100 to $250 a month to newly commissioned physicians and dentists and
$100 a month additional pay for veterinarians.
Another action taken by the Senate, which our field will help show our enemies in the Berlin
crises that we mean business, was the 90-to-nothing vote to authorize an extra 48 million dollars
to keep our civilian space program operating during the next four months.
Senator John Stennis of Mississippi asked for and got this unanimous speedy approval of
the supplemental measure to speed our capabilities to put man into space.
The bill will bring to more than $384 million dollars the funds authorized for the National
Arionatics and Space Administration during the current fiscal year, which ends July 1.
The House Committee has also voted unanimously to authorize this $48 million extra.
Sometimes we in Congress are here in Congress or asked why spend so much money on research
and why worry about putting a man into space?
Well, I think this research program is of vital importance to our country and to all the
free nations in the conquest for at least a fair consideration in space as far as it concerns
science and military supremacy.
It is easy to say that this sort of research has a crazy, buck-rodious kind of intangibility.
It is harder to look beyond the world.
We all understand into the mysterious regions of outer space and see that here in the
not too distant future will allow the key to the safety of our people.
Well as we all know Russia claims that it has sent a satellite weighing a ton and a half
into orbit around the sun.
There is no doubt in any of our minds that Russia's advances in rockets and satellites
has been phenomenal.
We are struggling to catch up and to stay caught up.
We must understand that mastery or at least even consideration in the matter of outer space
can mean life or death to us and we must act accordingly.
Talk about buck-rodious' ostrich thinking.
We cannot afford to have our heads in the sand when unforeseen space machines and all
that they mean in the military control of the world.
Yes, even of the universe one day are being pressed vigorously pursued and pressed by
our most sinister enemy, the Soviet Union.
Extension of the draft, authorization for space research and all that pursuit of our
military missile program, foreign military and economic aid, all these are weapons with
which we must must fight for our freedom and the freedoms of our friends and the community
of nations.
It is dangerous to think only of balancing the budget as desirable as that might be and
with a death and destruction of waiting right around the corner.
Certainly we must find the way of saving money, of plugging loopholes if possible and
tempering our domestic spending programs within the bounds and the needs of our people.
But real danger lies alongside the path of budget just for budget sick alone.
I'm trying in these decisions on these matters to keep constantly in mind that we must keep
our nation strong and think about the budget after we think about the defense and the safety
of our people.
Thank you and that's all until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we have some very important news with reference
to the TVA to report to you on this program today.
The House Public Works Committee by a vote of 19 to 14 reported out and sent to the floor
of the House of Representatives, the so-called TVA Self-Financing Bill, to enable the TVA
to finance its own steam-plants to issue bonds up to the extent of $750 million at any
time.
At any one time, the bonds to be paid out of the revenue from the sale of electricity.
The members of the Tennessee delegation and Chairman Clifford Davis of the Public Works
Committee, subcommittee, worked very hard to get a bill out over very stiff opposition
from the private tower lobby and others who were here to testify against the bill.
Unfortunately, bill that was reported by the House Committee did have a very bad crippling
amendment insofar as a territory to be served by the TVA as concern.
The House Committee bill members the TVA territory to 82,000 square miles, whereas the Senate
bill, which we got through the last Congress in the Senate, had 105,000 square miles.
The issue is kind of like this, that it's pretty difficult for former on one side of the
line to be paying higher electricity and he feels that when he's definitely in a position
where he can't ever get TVA service that his electric rates are going to go up, whereas
if the threat is there, the rates will stay down.
In any event we can work this, we can strive to get this crippling amendment eliminated
in the House and in the Senate or to at least get it in better shape than it is at present
time.
It was a good thing and I'm glad that the TVA steam plant and the Memphis steam plant and
interchained system was included.
Coveington Diesburg would kept in the TVA area, South Fulton, Tennessee and Paducocan
Tucky may get TVA power as is the case of Chickamaga, Georgia and Ringo, Georgia.
But at least we're on the way to some worthwhile legislation.
I'm very glad to have with us as a visitor today, Mr. Zeno Yates, a prominent citizen and
leading architect of Memphis, Tennessee.
We as you know last time I had a hearing in the Senate and got an appropriation through
to start the purchase of property and planning for a new federal building in Memphis, which
is very badly needed.
And Mr. Yates, you've been up here in connection with this week and will you tell us what
happened.
Yes, sir.
So let me tell you a little bit about the background that has transpired with the first
Mr. Yates, you're the chairman of the Advisory, Civic Center Advisory Committee of Architects.
Yes, sir.
And we have entered into a contract through a League of Memphis Architects, Senator, that
was established in Memphis about all the first of February.
And we received an appropriation from the city that would allow us to spend about six
months in developing and recommending a Civic Center design for the Civic Center of
Memphis.
We have been working through a Civic Center Advisory Committee that was appointed by the
Mayor and the City Commissioners in Memphis.
And on Monday of this week we presented them a recommended plan that was unanimous in
the Architectural League of Memphis Architects to accept that to recommend to the city, the
site for the proposed federal buildings which is immediately south of Ellis, auditorium.
The Civic Center Advisory Committee next took that recommendation which was unanimous
by the Memphis Architects to the City Commission on Tuesday.
And they intend accepted our recommendation.
And the Mayor came up to, and the Mayor and Tom Ferry's came up, Tom Ferry's is president
of the Memphis chapter and I came up to Washington last night.
And we appeared before the Mr. McConney and the administrative GSA today and received
their approval this morning.
Well, I congratulate you very, very hard to lay.
Thank you, sir.
That's going to be a wonderful Civic Center and that will be a beautiful 12 million dollar
building.
We want to get started on the construction right away because it's badly needed.
Oh, well, thank you very much, Mr. Yates.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I would like to speak to you today about a lonely
man, the American consumer.
It is a strange commentary on our life and times that this man should be lonely or he is
the very fabric of our nation.
His labor or management or professional abilities produce the goods and services of our economy
on every hand.
He is everywhere and still no one will listen to him.
In Washington today, there is a course of many voices creating such a loud plumber that
this forgotten man cannot be heard.
But if he were only to look about him and join together with all those standing about him
and at a given signal, shout out in unison with them, stop.
We will be heard.
We are the ones who must pay the prices charged for the goods and services.
We are the ones whose pocketbooks grown when prices soar out of sight.
Yes, we make the goods and provide the services, each in our own compartment of the economy.
But when it is built or grown or done, we all are the ones who pay the prices too.
This is the single loud, clear voice that must be heard if the inflation that is plaguing
this country today is to be halted.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I have opened a door through which this lonely man can direct
his craft or help in the midst of the organized pressures which lean and powerfully on him
from every hand.
This past week I introduced a bill in the Senate which would set up a cabinet level
department of consumers.
This department would provide a central clearinghouse where a consumer could find the answers
to his questions instead of trying to thread his way through a maze of agencies and regulatory
boards.
And most important of all, this bill would bring together the many unorganized voices of
individual, puzzle consumers on the actions of those governmental agencies which might
have an adverse effect on the value of the consumer's dollar.
After the Secretary of Consumers, the voices of all of the lonely and forgotten men and
women would become a course asking, what will this do to our pocketbooks?
What will this do to the price of beans, of bobby pins, of cabbages, of train tickets,
of gas bills, of all of the thousand and one other things a man and his wife and children
must buy to live?
At least 23 of my colleagues have joined me in sponsoring this bill in the Senate.
I expect more to join as time goes on.
They believe and I believe that this proposed department of consumer would be the beginning
of a really new era in the lives of the lonely and forgotten men and women, the consumers
of our nation.
We know that their voices in Washington who speak for business, who speak for agriculture,
who are special leaders for these groups and for labor, but there is no department and
no voice that just speaks for the average person, the American consumer.
Too often these other departments have become involved in fights between this railroad and
that railroad like the ICC, fights between competing producer groups.
What we need in this nation is someone who is going to fight and present facts and represent
and take the side of the American consumer.
Let us keep in mind that the government of the United States itself is the biggest consumer.
That's one of the reasons why we have to pay taxes and we can't have a balanced budget
very easily is that things are costing so much.
And we know who these forgotten people are, the government, they are you and I, they
are all of us.
Thank you until this time next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, Congress is near the end of its Easter recess.
And this would be a good time to review what the Senate has been able to do during the
first three months of the 86th session.
It is a have here the congressional record and it's rather remarkable that we have been
able to pass the volume of legislation which has been handled within these three months.
When we take into consideration the fact that on all legislation there must first be
built past and then extensive committee hearings and reports filed and then debate on the
floor of the Senate before a final vote is taken.
Let me run down here in the congressional record some of the main things that have been
accomplished here in the United States Senate during these first three months potatoes.
First how how how how how why you a bill has been passed and of course I in the Senate
and the House and signed by the President providing for the admission of how why you as
a state in the field of housing the bill provides for a two and seven tenths mid a billion
housing program over a six year period emphasizing low cost housing urban renewal and a more
realistic building program for the elderly.
The extension of the draft the draft has been extended for four years or until July 1st
1963 the induction provisions of universal military training and authority to draft physicians
and dentists in a essay a bill has been passed to authorize a supplemental appropriation of
forty eight million dollars for the national aeronautics and space administration for salaries
and expenses research and development particularly earmarked and almost entirely for project project
mercury project mercury as you all know is the project to put a man in space in orbit in space
this is very very important who is going to control space whether we're going to have our
say about it and this is one of the most important projects have been considered airports
authorized four hundred and sixty five million dollars over a four year period in the federal aid
for airport construction and I think there are a few bills that there's been more interest in
Tennessee than has in this large airport construction program.
World Bank the bill increased the resources of the international monetary fund by fifty percent
the capital of the international bank by one hundred and ten percent.
Clayton act amended the Clayton act so as to fill a enforcement void which has existed for years by
making final the decrees and the findings or rather the orders of the federal trade commission
and other regulatory agencies.
This is incidentally was a bill that came from our monopoly and antitrust subcommittee of which
I have the privilege of being chairman and we got it we were very fortunate to get it passed
in the Senate and I think it will be passed in the House of Representatives.
It was a bill also recommended by the president in his economic report to the to the Congress.
Distressed areas authorized a new federal program with an initial authorization of three
hundred and eighty nine million dollars aimed at alleviating unemployment and under development
and distressed areas.
It was a great deal of interest from some areas in Tennessee and this legislation and many
witnesses from Tennessee came to Washington to test to support it in hearings before the
committee.
Economic provides a two hundred thousand dollars for the joint committee to use in making an
economic inventory of the United States and particularly a study about inflation.
When we passed a bill in the Senate extending the unemployment compensation until the first
of July then of course there are other bills that have just been reported by committees such
as a labor bill.
Everybody feels that some worthwhile and good legislation must be passed in racketeering
and labor.
So we'll have a very busy time on this and other legislation immediately after the Easter
resets.
Until next week thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the Middle Eastern crises continue to be
the top of the news here in Washington this week.
They debate over the President's resolution move from committee to the floor of the Senate.
Every while committee hearings continued on an offshoot of the same problem.
The difficulty is created in the world oil supply by closure of the Suez Canal followed
by the increase in prices for oil and gasoline in this country and all over the world.
For taking precedence this week over both the President's resolution and the oil and gasoline
prices was the continuing diplomatic backlash which took place over the question of Israeli
troops in the Gaza Strip and in the Gulf of Aqaba.
And here I think a word of background to the news is essential to an understanding of
the headlines that have been flashed out of Washington, Cairo, New York and Tel Aviv
on this issue during this week.
Here is a map of the Middle East.
Here is the Suez Canal which has been closed Israeli shipping and now closed all shipping
controlled by massor.
Here is the Gaza Strip which Israeli troops took which is in the controversy.
Here is the Gulf of Aqaba which is controlled by Egyptian forces here on the streets of
Iran.
Israel has a little port down here on the Gulf of Aqaba.
Israel as you know maintains that the Gaza Strip has been used by Egypt for border raids
into Israel.
It also points truthfully to the fact that Israeli shipping has been blocked.
It wants assurances that its ships will not be blocked in the Suez or in the Gulf of Aqaba
and that raids will not again be staged from the Gaza Strip before it withdraws its troops
from Gaza and from the mouth of the Gulf.
On the other hand the United Nations has passed a resolution that everything has to be
returned to the status it was before the attack, before any assurances like that can be
given and Egypt is dragging its feet on clearing the canal until the troops are removed.
Now what happens in a situation like this?
What usually happens is that all the parties interested are trying to bring as much pressure
as they can for the best kind of arrangement they can work out for themselves, start conducting
their diplomacy in public.
They say what they do for propaganda effect in Washington, Tel Aviv, Cairo and the other
capitals of the world.
And the crises began sometimes to look worse than it actually is.
Thus this week you began to hear talk of sanctions being applied to Israel.
This talk originated in the United Nations and in the State Department here in Washington.
Now personally don't think that we're going to apply sanctions that at this time are in
the foreseeable future.
As matters now stand I do not feel that Congress would go along with it, certainly I would.
I don't see how a case can be made out of sanctions against Israel unless sanctions were
also applied to the others.
We have to fight the United Nations such as Russia, Egypt and India.
You can't have one set of rules for the strong and another set for the week.
I suspect that the Israeli embassy may know that sanctions are not likely to be applied.
But it's a way that the State Department took to publicly apply pressure to Israel to
withdraw its troops.
Conversely therefore it puts some moral responsibility it seems to me on the State Department.
To use the influence of the United States to get United Nations guarantees of neutralization
of the Gaza Strip and free passage through the Gulf and through the Suez Canal.
This also serves to emphasize one of my principal criticisms of the Middle East resolution
as is now written.
It doesn't touch the basic problems of the whole Middle East.
If Israel does withdraw its troops the basic problems will remain unsolved.
These problems are the internationalization of the Suez Canal and the guarantee of free
passage through the Canal and through the Gulf of Aqibah and the prevention of further fighting
from the Gaza Strip.
The relationship between Israel and her Arab neighbors which has been the subject of the
headlines this week isn't a communist and non-communist problem at all.
And therefore the so-called Middle East doctrine doesn't touch this basic threat to peace
in the Middle East in any way.
So that this is some of the background of the news that you will be hearing from Washington.
The debate in the United States Senate will of course point out these issues and undoubtedly
some amendments may be offered to the Middle East resolution which will be specifically
where the problems had upset that region.
I hope that some amendments to that effect are adopted.
If they're not I don't think the Middle East resolution will be much good.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.